Heat the oven to 375°F/190°C/gas 5. Generously butter the
bottom and sides of an 8-cup/2-L souﬄé mold or other tall-
sided baking dish.
In a medium saucepan, gently warm the sauce over
medium heat. Add the cheese and stir until melted. T aste
the sauce for seasoning and add salt and pepper if needed.
The sauce should be highly seasoned and very cheesy to
stand up to the bland eggs. T ake the pan from the heat, stir
the egg yolks into the sauce until blended and set aside.
Using a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or a
large bowl and a handheld electric mixer , whip the egg
whites, slowly at ﬁrst until they are foamy and then
increase the speed to high. Continue to whip until the
whites are thick and pillowy and deﬁnite—though still soft
and droopy—peaks form.
Put a big scoop of whites into the cheese sauce and
carefully fold the two together with a rubber spatula.
Continue adding whites and folding them into the sauce,
scooping from the bottom of the pan and gently rolling the
mixtures together to preserve as much volume as possible,
until all of the whites are added. Don’t worry about
blending every last streak of white. Gently pour the souﬄé
batter into the prepared mold and put it in the hot oven.
Bake the souﬄé until it is very high, deep golden brown on
the top, and still moves slightly when you shake the mold
but doesn’t seem liquidy inside, 22 to 30 minutes. Y ou can
double-check by inserting a thin-bladed knife into the
center of the souﬄé; if the knife comes out with liquid
batter on it, keep cooking. If you want to show the souﬄé
oﬀ, carry it to the table quickly , because it will deﬂate
slightly as it cools. The ﬂavor is better when it’s not too
hot.