bit. Reduce the heat to low and continue to cook, swirling
the oil in the pan occasionally , until the cloves are
completely soft, 5 to 7 minutes. Don’t let the garlic brown
at all. Remove the pan from the heat and let the oil cool
completely . Scoop out the garlic and reserve the garlic and
the oil separately .
In a food processor , combine the egg yolks, garlic, vinegar ,
and 1/4 tsp salt and pulse until well blended. The yolks will
likely be sprayed on the sides of the bowl, so scrape them
down with a rubber spatula. W ith the motor running, begin
adding the reserved garlic oil in a very slow stream. Y ou
may need to stop and scrape again. As the mayonnaise gets
thicker , you can add the oil faster . When you have
incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and watch the
sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate out, stop
adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough. Whirl in the
lemon juice and zest. Season with pepper , then taste and
adjust the seasoning with salt and lemon juice if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 cup/30 g ﬁnely chopped, pitted
black olives such as K alamata with the lemon juice and zest.